Now,
I have stripped all the user registration
authentication code out of the application.
It also no longer stores user's passwords and credentials and is now
more aligned with the single responsibility principle.
In fact, this application no longer handles usernames and passwords.
The dev team can now focus on the business functionality,
which actually pay the bills,
rather than the non‑functional authentication requirements.
To configure this application to use Keycloak,
all we need to do is, in our application.yml file,
under security, oauth, client, registration,
we register the client we created Keycloak,
providing its client ID and secret, let's give it a name,
let's set the redirect‑uri.
Now,
make sure this redirect‑uri matches what we put in
Keycloak otherwise Keycloak will reject it.
For authorization‑grant‑type, set the auth code,
and under scope, include OpenID Connect,
as this will be the protocol we are using.
We also need to include the authorization server detail.
So under provider, we can give it a name,
so keycloak, and then add the provider to our client.
Now, we could provide all the URIs to the endpoints,
like the jwk endpoint where the client can bootstrap the public keys of the
authorization server so we can verify the access tokens offline,
the token endpoint, and user‑info endpoints,
and the name of the ID field.
If we were using an OAuth 2 provider, like Facebook,
we would have to add all these.
But we are using OpenID Connect,
so all we have to do is add an issuer‑uri under the provider,
which is basically the domain of the auth server.
Now, in Keycloak, it also includes the path to the realm.
Now, if you recall the previous modules when we described OpenID Connect,
the spec defines a number of key endpoints,
one is the discovery endpoint,
and it's always to the path .well‑known/openid‑configuration for
all OpenID Connect providers, so Spring will know to simply
append that to the end of this URI.
If you go to the Keycloak console for our realm,
the endpoint is actually described here.
And if you click on this link, you can see that path.
And here is everything the client needs to bootstrap
itself to use this authorization server,
the authentication, token_endpoint,
the introspection_endpoint if you want to validate tokens by
sending them to the authorization server,
or the jwk endpoint if you want to validate tokens offline by checking their
signature using the public key of the authorization server,
and much more.
In our SecurityConfiguration class that extends the
web security configuration adapter, everything is a lot more simpler now.
We instruct Spring Security via the builder method that we want, oauth2Login.
We still want an authenticationSuccessHandler,
but this time,
our application only deals with one type of authentication token and principal,
and that's the OpenID Connect version, no longer any form or oauth2login tokens.
So all we have to do is check if the user has a portfolio,
and if not, we can register them with the claims on the OidcUser object.
Job done.
And in our controllers,
we can now use the AuthenticatedPrincipal annotation for the OidcUser,
which Spring will map for us, nice and simple.
Okay, back to our SecurityConfiguration class.
If the user is not authenticated,
rather than showing them a link to log in with Keycloak, we
can just put the redirect endpoint path,
which is the one that the OAuth2 redirect, the
/oauth2/authorization filter, looks out for.
And if the user is not authenticated, it will redirect them straight to Keycloak.
Okay, let's test this out.
There, job done. A few lines of code, and you have authentication done.
Now, of course, we are only scratching the surface of cloak's functionality.
You can have multi‑factor authentication,
user registration forms,
email verification, they're even working on face recognition, you
can also style the Keycloak Login page so it looks exactly like your
application, all via the admin console.
Okay, now, in the previous module, we had form and social login.
So in the Keycloak console, under Identity Providers,
let's select Facebook, put in the Client ID and Secret,
the Scopes, so you have a lot more options here,
but for now, that will do.
Let's make sure it's also Enabled and then save it.
If we restart our application and Keycloak,
the user can now log in with form or with Facebook. Job done.
Now, as mentioned,
we are only scratching the surface of Keycloak here.
Configuring it can be a whole course in itself.
And the good news is, Keycloak has great documentation,
so you will be able to easily find out how to tailor it to your
application's security requirements, all via the Keycloak GUI. Next, let's wrap up this module.